to be in a company where people are
actually thinking about these things
they first have to think it's possible
people feel like oh I can build AGI I
can build A10 billion company and then
you're literally like okay so how can we
build a culture that's 20% better and
they're like yeah no I don't know if
that's possible it's
[Music]
people welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore living
the life you want with enjoyment and
ease today we're going to do things a
little bit differently for those of you
who are listening to the recording
uh this is actually a live recording we
are Joe and I are here at my home right
now and we have a live audience of about
20 25 30ish people and we're going to do
a live podcast in front of the audience
with some people streaming and then
we're going to follow it with a Q&A you
know these days there's a lot of churn
there are a lot of brand new companies
doing brand new things that weren't even
possible a couple years ago or a couple
months ago
and there's also a lot of companies
going bankrupt going out of business
there's a lot of people running around
trying to make heads or tales of the
markets of AI of the changing political
landscape
and you know companies live and die by
the decisions they make the speed they
get to market the the tech they
create
the all of these things that could could
be seen as all Downstream of
culture the culture in a company could
be seen as the determinant of all these
other factors that determine whether you
thrive or or close shop so let's talk
about culture it's interesting what's
100% clear is that companies without
good culture Can Survive and Thrive you
can go into a completely toxic work
environment and the company can be grown
at unbounded speed and I went into a
company recently that is growing at that
kind of speed that7 billion of Revenue
like in the last year that wasn't there
just massive speed and I sat down with
the Technology Group the group that's
basically creating the engine of this
company and we did this uh
exercise where we just looked at what
how would we measure culture what would
be happening in the if the culture was
right and we just asked the question how
much better would your results be if the
culture was improved by 100% or
200% without fail every single person
thought that the culture would change
the company and you know over 1.5x to
10x it just depended on what we were
measuring and who was
guessing so it what I know is that
though you can get away
without a great culture
what you can't get away with is or what
you what you can't deny is is reasonable
is that
culture helps you be successful yeah
something that's interesting about that
is that for all those people who said
absolutely culture would change
everything I'm curious internally in
their head what each of them thought
that they meant yeah so we clearly
defined it in this particular case it
was creating the models and it was
literally it was clearly defined in how
the thinking was happening how the uh
experiments were happening etc etc so it
was like a very clearly defined Thing by
the folks and they all agreed on the
terms and the definitions which I think
is something that's really important and
what happens often when people go in and
work on culture they don't work on the
measurements and really think about how
do we measure this and how do we know if
we're successful or not right because
you can say I'm successful because my
revenues went up and to the right but
there's a lot of reasons so your
revenues go up into the right but there
are definite ways to measure culture
that often times people aren't thinking
about yeah something that's really
interesting when we've when we've gone
into companies together one of the first
things that you'll often do is you'll
have everybody say a couple words or
just one word about what kind of team
they want to work in just to make sure
everyone's on the same page and what
I've been surprised by is how on the
same page everybody tends to be how
similar those answers are straight off
the bat when people describe in a single
word what kind of team they want to be
on yeah so that was the I remember going
to one of the first times I did this in
a company I was sitting in an executive
team and I basically said I want to hear
one to three words of what you want in a
company in a team and and once they did
it I just asked does everybody agree or
disagree with that and there wasn't one
thing that somebody said where there was
disagreement they disagreed maybe on the
semantics of the word and then when we
defined the word correctly so everybody
knew what the word meant then they
agreed and I have done that now in
dozens of companies and I haven't had
anybody not one time say no I don't want
that I want a supportive team someone's
like no I don't want a supportive team I
want a adversarial team so we all all
humans want to work and be a part of
great teams great families we all want
it doesn't mean that we can know how to
get it know how to create it but we all
want it and which to me is one of the
most fascinating things is that when I
talk to CEOs and managers and leaders
the their thought process is something
to the effect of like I have to figure
out how to manage my team into
greatness but the truth is that
everybody on their team wants
it so what's going on there what's
happening that makes it that people want
that there this natural impulse like as
As Natural as a kid's impulse is to
walk is a team's impulse to do great
work I know everybody in this room right
now they want to do great work nobody's
like you know what would be great is if
like I had a life where I just did
mediocre [__] work for the rest of my
life nobody nobody says it and yet
somehow all this effort in into
management to try to get the results
when the the natural pull is there for
every team so so given that everybody
wants generally the same thing everyone
wants to be a fun on a functional team
and and enjoy themselves then the
distance must be somewhere else where
where does bad culture come from how how
does that come to be if if everyone
wants ultimately the same kind of a
thing yeah that there's I I hate where
this quote comes from I I
but but I love this quote um so I'm not
going to say where it comes from I'll
let everybody do the research on it but
the the quote is all disagreements
arguments uh come from two questions
who's in charge and how much do you love
me and the base of all cultural
misunderstanding comes from those two
things it's people feeling
unseen and it's people trying to figure
out how like who's in charge how do we
get it done what's what's the mechanism
and when you see that clearly when you
see oh because if I was just sitting
there on LinkedIn I think it was like
two or three days ago and I LinkedIn has
this new thing where they're asking you
hey you're invited to answer this
question because you're somebody who
should answer this question and it was
about how to create good company culture
and everybody was like great
communication easily defined roles
clearly defined roles they were doing
the thing that which is they're not
wrong by any stretch those are really
important things but all of those things
everything that was listed is is really
trying to answer those two core
questions how much do you like me and
and um and who's in charge and what's
fascinating to me is if I go into a
typical business and by typical I mean
95% of the businesses I've been in and I
say okay how do you make decisions here
they can't tell you the
answer which is fascinating when you
think that all a company is really at
the atomic level of a company it's
people's relationships and people's
decisions right you maybe you have have
some like capex you know you have some
you have some Capital you have some
money you have some technology but that
came from people's ideas and decisions
and people's relationships that's where
it comes from and and most companies
can't tell you how decisions are made in
their company and most companies have a
meeting culture which is a great
measurement of relationship how good the
meetings are and they have meeting
cultures where everyone's like [__] I
have to go to a
meeting so just think about that if
that's all that a company is is just the
relationships people are having and the
decisions and all of a sudden you find a
10% better way to make decisions or your
meetings Jump
by H I don't want to go to the meeting
to oh that was a pretty good meeting to
oh I love my meetings I I can't wait to
go to these meetings like what does that
do to Performance of a company it's it's
like a ridiculous multiplier one one
important variable there is how aware
are we about the fact that everything
that we're trying to do in managing the
organization is actually trying to
answer those two
questions like to what extent are we
aware that like are we lost in the weeds
around the way accountability process
are supposed to
run and trying to get it right or are we
constantly reminded of what kind of a
team do we want to be on what's the end
point here so that we can all be aligned
in the ways that we get there I think
there's something there's a prerequisite
to that to to to be in a company where
people are actually thinking about these
things they first have to think it's
possible so the amazing thing is is as
one of the questions earlier we were
talking about is people feel like oh I
can build AGI I can build A1 billion
company I can make printable Rockets 3D
printable Rockets go into space cheaper
than NASA can and then you literally
like okay so how can we build a culture
that's 20% better and they're like yeah
no I don't know if that's possible it's
people it's just like a mindblowing
reality and and the reason that that is
is because that most folks haven't
really figured out often how to have a
great marriage or a raise their kids
well or be with themselves in a way
that's great it's very hard to create a
great culture if the culture in your
head is
toxic right it's really hard to create a
great culture if every relationship is a
dramatic fire ball of pain and
suffering and so so often times it's
what the reality can't be created if you
can't see the reality in yourself yeah
we've talked about how a company is
often the culture of a company can be
the reflection of its of its leadership
or is yeah generally yeah I haven't seen
it not be the case yeah that the the
consciousness of the leadership is seen
throughout the company absolutely yeah
though I've also heard you say before
you know like this is for a small
company you know the leader changes
their Consciousness and then the company
quickly follows for a much larger
organization there's definitely some lag
oh yeah so what are what are some of the
leverage points let's say let's say
somebody's running a 10,000 person
company and they've just done a whole
lot of inner work and their
Consciousness has shifted and they're
starting to see things very differently
how what are the leverage points when
you're working with an organization to
change the culture in that organization
and help it catch up to to what is
possible and what you the reality that
you're creating so there's so many
leverage points to work with and so many
levers to pull the thing that I think
people don't see typically is that there
is two main forms one is what I would
call like a direct intervention so that
would be something where I'm going to
hire somebody I'm going to fire somebody
I'm going to coach somebody I'm going to
undress or talk down this team or
something to that effect I'm GNA give a
bonus those are direct interventions
those are far less powerful than
structural changes This Is How We Do
meetings this is how we make decisions
this is what we put on the walls this is
how we communicate so an example of this
in in our company you know this that one
day I was reading emails and I was
frustrated and so anytime that I'm
frustrated inside the company I don't
say how do I change this I say how do I
change this so it never happens again in
the
company you know if if I see
incompetency somewhere I don't say how
do I help that person not be incompetent
I say how do I make it so that
incompetency doesn't happen inside the
company generally so I was reading these
emails and I noticed the following
Behavior which
was we could kind of do this or this I
don't know and somebody else going oh
that's a cool idea I guess but there's
also this thing and I I call that
faffing I don't know if that's the
appropriate and then and so we just put
one structural change in which is at the
end of every correspondence you write
action needed colon what the action is
who supposed to do it when they're
supposed to do it by and in doing that
all the almost all maybe 90% of the
faffing stopped and that was the purpose
of it and so that's structural so every
email written we don't do email but our
correspondents every of them has action
needed and it just changes that behavior
it's just how we do things now the way
to think about what how you make those
tools however is how do I Empower people
and how do I ensure quality if you can
do those two things in a decentralized
way then then it works right and so in
in our company now I don't we don't even
think about lower or higher but say the
least paid person the person with the
least responsibility in the company can
tell me what to do and when to do do it
right and I can tell anybody they can
tell anybody and we can all say no and
that we have a system for how we don't
get overwhelmed but everybody can do
that every and not only can they they
have to they you you it's not you get to
be empowered you are empowered or you
don't work here and so you're constantly
looking for these mechanisms that
Empower people yeah yeah what you said
in a decentralized way and what the the
email culture kind of example brings up
is that by setting certain structures
you B basically decentralize the
decision- making you decentralize
autonomy you decentralize Authority in
in what examples would Central it's also
a centralized decision though there was
there was a way that it's like from one
place you're just like we're not doing
fafy emails we're doing emails with
action items and clear deadlines correct
and there can be some push back there
can be
some you know refactoring of that
process as people try it out try
different things experiment yeah in what
cases is
uh a
centralized
intervention uh like like what are some
classic examples of a centralized
intervention working really well and
going poorly and then the same with say
a decentralized intervention like a
structural change yeah so if you look at
this as far as companies
generally the more decentralized a
company gets usually they beat their
competition so GM was once the most
decentralized car company Toyota became
the most decentralized car company there
was taxi cabs then there was Uber the
more decentralized it gets typically
they win that only happens if they can
do two things they can make sure quality
stays and safety so maybe quality maybe
safety and fairness that those things
happen and if they can do those with
some very elegant
rules then the decentralization works if
they can't do that I
Napster then then the decentralized it
fails to work right so so there's a you
can only decentralize to a point where
you can control for those things and
that's where the central decision making
needs to step in the centralized
decision- making is how are we doing
things what are the principles we're
living by how do we get things done what
is the brand the core stuff and then how
do we flow that into a company in a way
that works how do we make it lightweight
how do we make it elegant how do we make
it uh that people have been
participating in it so that they
actually want to do the thing so they
get see the power of the thing I was
just in one of like the Fortune 100
companies and there was a letter from
the CEO and I was in a group uh like one
level down and they were reading the
letter and they were laughing at this
letter from the CEO and they were just
saying like that has to be one of the
most poorly written letters and the
letter was basically saying hey we keep
on doing these scores we keep on
measuring this thing and one of the
things we're measuring is that we are
becoming more bureaucratic and less we
we execute less and so we need to that
to change if I was writing that letter
to my folks it would be like a marketing
email oh what's the thing that's going
to make them read this what's the thing
that they care about what's the problem
I'm solving for them this is this is
these These are the customers these are
the people these are the users how do I
how do I look at what their their
objections are how do I respect them the
same way I'd respect a customer
instead of well I've I've told them we
are now going to be less bureaucratic
and therefore it shall be less
bureaucratic and the email itself was
like the most bureaucratic email because
it
wasn't it wasn't like showing that
respect it was well I've said it
therefore it shall be and obviously it's
not going to work that way yeah another
relevant thing here is you just you just
described a situation where the CEO's
direct reports are laughing at the CEO
behind the CEO's back like how does that
come to be and this is another thing
that is very common out there where CEOs
feel alone and everybody else but the
CEO but the leader or at least but the
top brass sees them
as like evil or bad or like just there
can just be some kind of tension between
leadership and even even the people who
are directly supporting them how how
does that happen yeah so let me tell you
a story and I'll explain so the story is
I I was working with a brilliant woman
and she was working on in one of these
big companies and doing some big Tech
project and one of the
like quintessential silic Silicon Valley
narcissistic leaders was there and
yelling at the team with some
coaching one day she looks at this
person while he is yelling at her team
and she says to him
um I really see how much you care and I
see how frustrated you are that it's not
happening the way you want it to happen
and I want you to know that everybody in
this room wants to help you get your
vision met it's just hard for us to do
it when you're yelling at us and this is
what this guy was a known Yeller
everywhere and as I understand it that
was the last time this guy yelled at her
team what's happening there is there's
many levels to it the first is that many
CEOs what they grew up in was they had
to be self
efficient they they learned somewhere
that they had to get it
done they felt to some degree abandoned
as a child so they're recreating that
story in their life of oh I have to do
this I'm the one that has to get this
done people don't see me so there's that
happening on the other side the
followers are expecting some sort of
perfection from the
leadership particularly because the
leadership is not saying I need help
like they're not being vulnerable right
because they're self-sufficient that's
is what they've learned and they are
also looking at the CEOs in this way of
you need to be perfect and you can make
me happy and if you approve of me then I
will be good enough and you can make my
dreams come true and that whole thing
like if you look at if you could just
measure how much talk is happening in an
organization the CEO is the most talked
about human in that organization just
generally right so there is a way in
which people don't treat the CEO with
the kind of respect that they treat
their friends they don't ask the
questions they don't they don't show up
as human with the CEO which amplifies
this feeling of aloneness from them yeah
and this also seems to filter down three
companies too you know regional managers
treat corporate the same way and they're
like yes why did they cut these people
they didn't even ask me right there's
there's one other piece that happens
there most companies will do this thing
where they say oh we're going to make
significant decisions about you without
talking to you about your org without
talking to you because we can sit here
around a table and map out everything
and we know what's best we're not going
to actually take a listen to the people
on the ground and get their knowledge
before we make the decision and it's
funny this is where people don't feel
heard if you just give a moment to hear
the
objections and make the same decision
people will understand the decision you
make much better than if you don't
listen at
all and so this is another thing that
amplif I
this over and over and over again I
think in a lot of cases people are
afraid of actually doing that like if
you're about to lay off somebody in your
team and you talk to the team first to
gather like advice and information then
you might have very challenging
conversations and make even harder
decisions so sometimes it's even easier
just to make a decision that you don't
have the context for because getting the
context would evoke emotions that are
not comtable it's easier in the way it's
easier not to potty train a dog yeah you
know like I mean like that day it's much
easier than training the dog but the
rest of your life you're going to have
like poop on your
rug yeah I was so I was recently in
another company and uh I don't know
something like two hours into the
meeting I said basically I can't trust
this team to actually do the work that
you all are saying you're going to do
and so I would like to address that
before we continue because I don't want
to waste my time working with a team
that I can't trust
and so the reason I was doing it was
because there was some emails that were
sent and they were supposed to respond
some responded late some responded with
a whole bunch of justification it it
wasn't just the kind of so we went
around the room and we asked each one
what made you do it late what made you
justify what what was going on and they
talked about one and each time they
talked about the thing that made them do
that I was like oh how does that happen
in the whole company how do we
structurally change that for the whole
company CU you can't be the only one
doing it and so we found all these
Solutions in that conversation a little
bit later we're talking about how to
have great meetings and one of the
people said well not all meetings can be
festar you know like what if you have to
really give people a talking to I was
like well I just gave you a talking to
an hour and a half ago how was that and
they all just laughed because they knew
right oh we we made that
productive the thing nobody Minds being
called out if they're not being shamed
if they're not being told they're bad
and so again if you're running a
culture and you have a lot of self-
Shame you have a hard time creating a a
a company that isn't full of shame but
it'll be easy to create politics yeah
exactly poopy rugs exactly exactly so so
yeah politics is a good thing to bring
that that points to politics in a
company if you're if you can just say
the thing and say it tactfully which to
say tactfully is not to say politically
but is actually just direct and
vulnerably the thing is to like to do it
with an open heart yeah it's like hey I
I know you all want to do a good job you
didn't you didn't become vice presidents
of this like1 billion doll company
because you wanted to do [__] work so I
got you it's like it's coming at it with
that open-heartedness yeah and as you
cut through the Politics as that culture
changes then what happens with
transparency what happens with how much
easier it feels to ask ask advice of the
people who your decisions are going to
affect in the company and be able to
have those conversations and have them
quickly efficiently and still make the
decision yeah transparency is the best
antidote to politics for sure the the
the best example of this and you can say
a lot of good and bad things about their
culture but Bridgewater which at least
at one point was the largest hedge fund
in the world they videotaped every
single meeting so if you and I had a
meeting we'd videotape it and if I
talked about cat in that meeting he
would get a copy of the videotape so it
was complete transparency and the
principle that they were working on was
transparent markets are efficient
markets and of course the lawyers were
like no you can't do that like that you
know the evidence that this is going to
create and and what it turned out to be
was that there was less lawsuits because
everybody knew they were being recorded
so they didn't do that dubious stuff
they thought about everything they were
doing because there was that deep
transparency
and the politics in the office were an
interesting thing with the way that this
culture ended up working was
that from what I heard from some
insiders was that it was like 66% of the
people who got employed there were gone
inside of 18 months but the people who
stayed stayed and stayed and stayed and
stayed for the with the company so they
had this very solid core team but it was
not a team that you would want to be in
if you were not if if you were defensive
when people gave you criticism because
if you ran a meeting there and it was
filmed you'd have three people saying oh
here's three ways you could have made
done better in that meeting and if you
want to win and you can like drop the
ego that's a culture you want to be a
part of I don't think it has to be that
harsh I think every culture needs to be
a little bit different given what
they're doing I think a culture of a AI
researchers is going to need to be run a
little bit differently than a culture
of uh cleaning people people who are
doing cleaning for high-rise buildings
is going to need to be a little
different than somebody who's doing farm
equipment I think there's a lot of
things there's a lot of nuances there
which I think is also one of the
challenges for culture is you have to
meet people where they are the same way
you would coaching or in Friendship so
something we were talking about earlier
also was
how for a lot of people a lot of people
in leadership they're hesitant to talk
about culture in the way that they're
happy to talk about
yeah profit anything else profits right
yeah yeah yeah I what I want to talk a
little bit more about that it's the same
thing these days there's some idea that
oh wow that we're on this front edge of
not wanting toxic cultures but nobody
wants them it's just they're scared of
being judged for saying it because then
you don't then you're not really
business then you're not really don't
you don't really care about the bottom
line and the example of this recently
was that I was I've been told from the
team to like get on LinkedIn and do
LinkedIn stuff every once in a while and
so I'm doing that and I came across this
post and recently you know there was the
healthcare CEO who who got shot and
somebody responded with what a great
human being he was um that he rose
through the ranks that he came from a
small town that he was the American
dream and there was 3,000 responses I
did not get through all of them but
there wasn't one where where
people didn't care about the ethics
there wasn't one where people said hey
it's okay to kill people for money there
wasn't one where anybody
Justified every single one was hey we
have a responsibility to the people we
serve we have a responsibility so and
this is LinkedIn CEOs professionals oh
yeah there was like comments of I had to
stop using this person's healthcare
because I couldn't agree with their with
their thing and I and I spent 150,000 in
health care every month for my employees
it was CEO example of a CEO caring about
their Employees Healthcare right and so
and I I couldn't scan I couldn't find
any that was just like no he totally
justified thing there was none of that
and it was such this realization for me
of oh wait no everybody cares everybody
wants
to every CEO wants to be of
service maybe not I mean I'm sure
there's some psychotic folks out there
some I'm not saying that they know how
to do it I'm not saying that they don't
get lost but but there is a deep desire
in all of us and it's just a scary thing
to admit it's kind of like in the 1970s
you couldn't say I'm an environmentalist
and a businessman you either had to be
an environmentalist or a businessman and
then somewhere in the '90s somebody was
like oh look I can make a lot of money
being an environmentalist and you could
be both you could be a climate investor
you all these things could happen and
nobody looks at you and goes oh you want
to save climate you must think about the
bottom line everybody understands now
you can do both and I think it's the
same thing except we're just not
admitting it yet it's just hard for
people to admit that this is the reality
on the ground is that if you're going to
attract great talent if you are going to
win in a race where great ideas and
great relationships matter you need to
care about you you have no choice but to
care about culture yeah I think that
really points to a fundamental inversion
in the in the perspective of our society
which is you know that if I optimize for
short-term profits then later on I'll be
able to optimize for culture because
honestly if you look at any human
activity anything anybody ever does what
are we making all the tech for what are
we making the AI for what are we doing
garbage collection for what are we doing
art for all of it is ultimately for
almost anybody I think they would agree
so that they can have a better life with
the people that they love and that is
sometimes an endo that seems like a
long-term goal and you have to do all
these short-term sacrifices to get there
and you can flip the entire thing out
its head where if you have if you're
focusing on the culture of a company you
can in
principle have faith that you're going
to make better decisions you're going to
navigate the market better you're going
to be communicating Bu you're going to
have less politics you're going to have
I don't think you have to have faith
even you can just measure it see if it's
working I don't I don't need to have
faith that I don't have to H be a
billionaire to start exercising culture
is in everything you do you have to do
the stuff anyways it's how you do it
that matters it doesn't even
particularly take more
time doesn't require more
resources it's just are you being
thoughtful and how you're doing it are
you are you giving people what they want
which is autonomy in recognition are you
being clear about who's in charge and
how decisions are made those don't take
time those just
take Consciousness it just take an
intention rather than doing all this
business in a way that sucks to get to
the point where maybe in the future I'll
have the life that I want with the
people that I love with my second
company that I'll spend half of my
fortune on so I feel relevant I'll
create a culture that's really good for
everybody that yeah yeah and rather than
that the invitation is to live the life
that you want with the people that you
love and do that today the way that you
work together and then let everything
else yeah and if you're listening to
this the the the great place to start is
just sit down with your team and ask
them how do they want to be a team
together and then ask them okay so this
is the team we want to be what's
stopping us what can we do to change
that it's it's not complicated do you
want to add anything about the council
or anything like that oh yeah the
council um yeah so what what I would
just say one of the things for any of
you who are in the room it's an invite
only but Mark is the person who's
creating this thing and one of the
things we notice is that leadership in
general needs to have a community of
support usually when you're doing
leadership your situation is such that
you can't be completely transparent and
obvious with the people below you or
above you or at least it takes a while
to learn how to do that and so we really
want to create a a community of practice
people who were interested in leadership
being a form of self-discovery and
creating environments where is really
healthy for people and to learn from one
another and so we have that happening if
you're interested Mark is the guy to
talk
to that's it that's
[Applause]
y thank you everybody